README.md, before:

# File Stashes

A simple file sharing app allows users to upload and share files.

## Prerequisites

The following tools are developed basd on the following versions. Other versions may work but not tested.

* Ruby version: 3.2.2
* Rails version: 7.1.2

## Getting Started

1. Check out the repository

  ```bash
  git clone git@github.com:absoluteyl/file-stashes.git
  ```

2. Install dependencies

  ```bash
  bundle install
  ```

3. Generate master key and credentials

  ```bash
  # Generate master key
  EDITOR=echo rails credentials:edit
  ```

4. We use [dotenv](<https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv>) to manage environment variables. Copy `.env` from example and fill in required values for your own environment.

  ```bash
  cp .env.example .env
  ```

5. Create and setup the database

  ```bash
  rails db:setup
  ```

6. Start the Rails server

  ```bash
  rails s
  ```

## Run the app using Docker

1. Build docker image. This step is optional, you can skip this step to use the pre-build image from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/absoluteyl/file-stashes)

  ```bash
  docker build -t file-stashes:latest .
  ```

2. Generate self-signed ssl certificate using [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert)

  ```bash
  # If it's the firt install of mkcert, run
  mkcert -install

  # Generate certificate for domain "docker.localhost" and their sub-domains
  mkcert -cert-file certs/local-cert.pem -key-file certs/local-key.pem "docker.localhost" "*.docker.localhost"
  ```

3. Copy `docker-compose.yml` from example

  ```bash
  cp docker-compose.yml.example docker-compose.yml
  ```

4. Run docker containers

  ```bash
  # (Optional) add -d to run in background
  docker-compose up
  ```

Commit message:

doc: add instruction to install preview libs
Signed-off-by: absoluteyl <17698254+absoluteyl@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# File Stashes

A simple file sharing app allows users to upload and share files.

## Prerequisites

The following tools are developed basd on the following versions. Other versions may work but not tested.

* Ruby version: 3.2.2
* Rails version: 7.1.2

### Notice

1. Starting from Rails 7, `vips` becomes the default variant processor. If you are using MacOS, you may need to install `vips` manually. See [this issue](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/upgrading_ruby_on_rails.html#active-storage-default-variant-processor-changed-to-vips) and [refence](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70849182/could-not-open-library-vips-42-could-not-open-library-libvips-42-dylib)

    ```bash
    brew install vips
    ```

2. To show preview of PDF and video files, you need to install `poppler` and `ffmpeg` manually. See [reference](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveStorage/Preview.html)

    ```bash
    brew install poppler ffmpeg
    ```

## Getting Started

1. Check out the repository

  ```bash
  git clone git@github.com:absoluteyl/file-stashes.git
  ```

2. Install dependencies

  ```bash
  bundle install
  ```

3. Generate master key and credentials

  ```bash
  # Generate master key
  EDITOR=echo rails credentials:edit
  ```

4. We use [dotenv](<https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv>) to manage environment variables. Copy `.env` from example and fill in required values for your own environment.

  ```bash
  cp .env.example .env
  ```

5. Create and setup the database

  ```bash
  rails db:setup
  ```

6. Start the Rails server

  ```bash
  rails s
  ```

## Run the app using Docker

1. Build docker image. This step is optional, you can skip this step to use the pre-build image from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/absoluteyl/file-stashes)

  ```bash
  docker build -t file-stashes:latest .
  ```

2. Generate self-signed ssl certificate using [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert)

  ```bash
  # If it's the firt install of mkcert, run
  mkcert -install

  # Generate certificate for domain "docker.localhost" and their sub-domains
  mkcert -cert-file certs/local-cert.pem -key-file certs/local-key.pem "docker.localhost" "*.docker.localhost"
  ```

3. Copy `docker-compose.yml` from example

  ```bash
  cp docker-compose.yml.example docker-compose.yml
  ```

4. Run docker containers

  ```bash
  # (Optional) add -d to run in background
  docker-compose up
  ```
